# 12610140 - Identifiable context

## Template

To establish that a part belongs to a larger whole, the whole needs to be identified with a particular space distinct from other spaces.

## Physical

People need an identifiable spatial unit to belong to (up to 300 yards across; 400-500 inhabitants) distinct from other parts of the urban environment. Today's pattern of development destroys such neighbourhoods. In existing cities, encourage local groups to define physically the neighbourhoods they live in. Give them some degree of autonomy and keep major roads out.

## Social

People need an identifiable functional unit to belong to (a sector of social space), distinct from other parts of the social environment. Within existing organizational complexes, encourage groups to define the special activity domains with which they are identified. Give them some degree of autonomy and protect them from the high intensity communication pathways of the external environment.

## Conceptual

People need an identifiable belief system or school of thought to belong to (a sector of conceptual space), distinct from other parts of the conceptual environment. Within existing conceptual frameworks, encourage groups to define the areas of special interest with which they are identified. Give them some degree of autonomy and protect them from being overridden by patterns of general relationships.

## Psychic

An individual needs a central focus to his or her personality (a sector of his or her psychic space) as a reference point for a sense of identity or on which to ground any response to the world. Experiential discovery of such a centre should be encouraged. The sense of relative detachment associated with such a centre should be cultivated and protected from the distractions of external patterns of insight.

## Broader Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Network of inter-relationships](12610050)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Complementarity](12610270)
- [Functional cycle](12610260)
- [Context boundary](12610150)
- [Adaptive interstices](12610480)
- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Local relationship loops](12610490)
- [Accessible non-linearity](12610600)
- [Principal points of entry](12610530)
- [Occupiable temporary site limit](12610220)
- [Adequate variety of cyclic elements](12610350)
- [Integrating the historical dimension](12610400)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Compensating relationships in parallel](12610230)
- [Differentiation by relationship density](12610360)
- [Local sources for perspective nourishment](12610890)
- [Context for emergence of new perspectives](12610650)
- [Informal local perspective interface zones](12610880)
- [Bounded common small-scale interaction domains](12610610)
- [Context for acknowledgement of past perspectives](12610700)
