# 12610360 - Differentiation by relationship density

## Template

A domain is articulated by differentiating zones of high, medium and low relationship densities amongst the domain elements. Such distinctions should be reinforced by the overall clustering of the elements.

## Physical

Within any neighbourhood (or cluster of houses) there are those who wish to live close to central services or the movement of people, there are those who prefer privacy, and there are those who prefer some compromise between such extremes. Such differing preferences for publicness may be satisfied by reinforcing the distinction between busy streets, secluded backstreets or pathways, and streets of an intermediate type.

## Social

Within any organization or group there are those who wish to be visibly associated with areas of intense activity or public contact, there are those who prefer seclusion, and there are those who prefer some compromise between those roles involving extreme public relations and personal exposure, those roles requiring privacy, and those involving some mix of the two.

## Conceptual

A conceptual domain is articulated by differentiating areas of intense interaction between mutually challenging and commonplace ideas, isolated areas of exploration and reflection, and areas having some of the characteristics of both. Such distinctions may be usefully maintained by clarifying and reinforcing the pattern of relationships between them.

## Psychic

A mode of awareness is articulated by differentiating conditions of intense interaction between perceptions (whether new insights or old), conditions of meditation and withdrawal, and conditions having some of the characteristics of both. Such distinctions may be usefully maintained by clarifying and reinforcing the pattern of transitions between them.

## Broader Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Standard frameworks](12610380)
- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Integrating a new dimension](12610390)
- [Enhancing function of common domains](12611230)
- [Focus-oriented communication networks](12611200)
- [Protected low intensity relationships](12610550)
- [Hospitability of communication pathways](12611210)
- [Linear relationships enhanced by non-linear processes](12610510)
- [Arrangement of structures ot engender fruitful interfaces](12611000)
