# 12610340 - Interchange

## Template

The interconnections between lines of relationships in a domain, namely the nodal points from which alternative relationships originate, play a central role in ensuring the viability and integrity of the overall pattern of relationships.

## Physical

The interchanges in a web of public transportation services play a central role in ensuring the viability and integrity of the transportation system. They should be organized to make them accessible to regular users and to minimize the discontinuity between different modes of transport.

## Social

The arenas in which information is translated between different media in the web of public communication services play a central role in ensuring the viability and integrity of the communication system. The arenas should be organized to make them accessible to regular communications from different groups and to minimize the discontinuity between different modes of communication.

## Conceptual

The focal, or interdisciplinary, concepts which provide interconnections between different lines of thought, play a central role in ensuring the viability and integrity of the web of conceptual relationships. Such nexuses of inter-relationships should be organized to make them relevant to ideas emanating from different schools of thought and to minimize the discontinuity between different modes of thought.

## Psychic

The integrative modes of awareness, which provide the necessary interconnections between particular modes of awareness, play a central role in ensuring the viability and integrity of any ordered pattern of awareness. The integrative modes should be organized to make them significant to insights emerging from different modes of awareness and to minimize the discontinuity between different modes of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Decentralized formal processes](12610090)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)
- [Web of general interrelationships](12610160)
- [User-determined specialized communications](12610200)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Hospitable common domains](12610940)
- [Hospitable transit points](12610920)
- [Integrating a new dimension](12610390)
- [Partially contained interfaces](12611190)
- [Integrating the historical dimension](12610400)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Provision for temporary perspective inactivity](12611500)
