# 12610090 - Decentralized formal processes

## Template

The segregation of formal and informal processes and the concentration of each of them within distinct and unrelated areas is artificial and leads to their unhealthy development. Formal processes should be distributed in such a way as to permit interaction with informal processes.

## Physical

The artificial separation of residential and work environments creates rifts in people's inner lives and prevents the emergence of highly differentiated sub- cultures. The concentration and segregation of work leads to dead neighbourhoods. Zoning and other regulations should be used to scatter workplaces throughout the city and to prohibit large concentrations of family life without associated workplaces.

## Social

The segregation of formal and informal processes in organizations and groups and the confinement of each to separate and well-defined settings leads to unhealthy social development of a schizophrenic nature. Formal group processes should be distributed throughout the organizational environment so as to facilitate alternations with informal processes.

## Conceptual

The segregation of formal and informal conceptual procedures and methods and the restriction on the use of each to separate and well-defined circumstances leads to unhealthy conceptual development. Formal procedures should be adopted throughout the conceptual domain such as to facilitate alternation with informal, creative processes.

## Psychic

The segregation of disciplined and unstructured modes of awareness and the restriction of each to separate and well-defined contexts leads to unhealthy personal development of a schizophrenic nature. Structured modes of awareness should be interrelated with unstructured modes such as to facilitate alternation between them.

## Broader Patterns

- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Interchange](12610340)
- [Complementarity](12610270)
- [Context boundary](12610150)
- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Accessible non-linearity](12610600)
- [Web of selective interchange](12610190)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Chain of fundamental transformation zones](12610420)
- [Local opportunities for perspective activity](12611570)
- [Integrated contexts for perspective dynamics](12610800)
