# 12610440 - Local focal points

## Template

Local coordination within a domain can only be effectively achieved through the formation of appropriately located local focal points.

## Physical

Local government of communities, with the full participation of inhabitants, can best be ensured by provision of a small town hall for each community of about 7000. This should be located near the busiest intersection in the community. It should provide for a public discussion arena, public services, and community project offices.

## Social

Coordination of any specialized group or organizational complex, with the full participation of those involved, can best be ensured by creation of a common service environment. This should be associated with the main nexus of communications amongst participants. It should provide an arena for public discussion, common services, and project management facilities.

## Conceptual

Integration of any specialized conceptual domain or school of thought can best be ensured by promoting the emergence of a common framework, preferably associated with the main nexus of conceptual relationships, to facilitate interrelationships between concepts.

## Psychic

Integration of any specialized mode of awareness can best be ensured by encouraging the emergence of a focal insight, preferably associated with the main nexus of perceptual relationships.

## Broader Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Functional cycle](12610260)
- [Underdefined processes](12610330)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Local action network](12610450)
- [Enhancing function of common domains](12611230)
- [Small-scale perspective interaction contexts](12611510)
- [Bounded common small-scale interaction domains](12610610)
- [Exposure of structural activities to communication pathway](12611650)
- [Minimally-structured perspective control operations](12610810)
