# 12610050 - Network of inter-relationships

## Template

There is advantage in relating to centrally organized frameworks as well as to those which are minimally organized. In order to reconcile these contradictory requirements, a network of inter-relationships is necessary which both links the limited number of central positions to the many non-central, minimally- organized areas, and provides a barrier to encroachment on such areas.

## Physical

Many people want to live in the country whilst also living close to a large city. It is however geometrically impossible to have thousands of small farms within a few minutes of a major city. Both are possible by arranging a loose network of country roads around large open squares of countryside or farmland, with houses closely packed along the road, but only one house deep. In these terms, the suburb is an obsolete and contradictory form of human settlement.

## Social

There is advantage in participation in major groups and local communities. In order to reconcile these mutually incompatible forms of activity, a loose network of relationships is necessary which links both the limited number of central organizations to the many non-central, minimally organized groups and ensures that the latter provide protection against external encroachment.

## Conceptual

There is advantage in major conceptual frameworks as well as in minimally organized conceptual processes. In order to reconcile these mutually incompatible forms of conceptual organization a loose network of relationships is necessary which links both the limited number of centrally organized frameworks to the minimally organized conceptual processes and ensures that the latter provide protection against progressive formalization.

## Psychic

There is advantage in highly ordered modes of awareness as well as in minimally ordered modes of awareness. In order to reconcile these mutually incompatible modes a loose network of associative relationships is necessary which links both the limited number of ordered modes to the minimally ordered modes and ensures that the latter provide protection against loss of the former.

## Broader Patterns

- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Four-level structural limit](12610210)
