# 12610460 - Diversified interchange environment

## Template

For an interchange environment to be most effective it should be highly diversified within a framework providing the minimum coherence for the variety of styles and modes of operation.

## Physical

A market is most effective and dynamic when it offers a wide variety of products through many shops, each organized according to its own style rather than standardized within a monolithic supermarket. Only a minimum structure of roofing, aisles and common services is required.

## Social

A meeting environment is most effective and dynamic when it offers a wide variety of experiences each organized according to its particular style rather than according to a uniform set of procedures. Only a minimum framework defining and interrelating meeting spaces and common services is required.

## Conceptual

A framework for the interchange of ideas is most effective and dynamic when it offers a wide variety of methods, approaches and procedures, rather than being based on a single all-embracing approach. Only a minimum framework defining the relationship between the approaches is required, together with any common facilitative procedures.

## Psychic

A mode of awareness ensuring cross- fertilization between perceptions is most effective and significant when it permits a wide variety of perceptions rather than being based on one all-embracing mode of comprehension. Only a minimum comprehension framework is required to clarify the relationship between the different perceptions.

## Broader Patterns

- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Web of selective interchange](12610190)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Flexible interfaces](12612440)
- [Local sources for perspective nourishment](12610890)
- [Protected low-density communication pathways](12611010)
- [Exchange contexts controlled by a single perspective](12610870)
- [Arrangement of structures ot engender fruitful interfaces](12611000)
- [Exposure of structural activities to communication pathway](12611650)
- [Primary inter-level connections at transitions in boundary orientation](12612120)
