# 12610190 - Web of selective interchange

## Template

Interchange points for similar resources should be distributed evenly throughout the environment for which they are each a process nexus. As such they interact in a self-organizing manner, maintaining a stable nexus web despite changes to it resulting from fluctuating demands upon its parts.

## Physical

Shops and other services rarely locate themselves in those positions which both best serve the needs of those they serve and guarantee their own survival. Similar services can best be evenly distributed throughout the area they serve, filling gaps in the web, whilst different services should be located close to the largest cluster of other services.

## Social

Discussion groups, conferences or fairs concerned with similar questions should best be distributed evenly throughout the space-time environment for which they are a process nexus. As such they interact in a self- organizing manner maintaining a stable nexus web despite changes to it resulting from fluctuating demands upon the groupings. Those concerned with different questions can best be located in relationship to the larger groupings in the web.

## Conceptual

Focal concepts through which similar phenomena are ordered should be evenly distributed throughout the conceptual space within which they are each a nexus of deliberative interchange. As such they interact in a self- organizing manner maintaining a stable web of concepts despite changes to it resulting from fluctuating use of its constituent viewpoints.

## Psychic

Focal modes of awareness through which perceptions of similar circumstances are processed should be evenly distributed throughout a person's perceptual space. As such they interact in a self-organizing manner maintaining a stable web of modes of awareness despite changes to it resulting from fluctuating use of its constituent modes.

## Broader Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Decentralized formal processes](12610090)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Diversified interchange environment](12610460)
- [Local sources for perspective nourishment](12610890)
