# 12610160 - Web of general interrelationships

## Template

A general system of interrelationships can only work if all the parts are well-connected. This tends not to be the case because of the privileged role accorded to the major relationships and the difficulty of linking relationships of different kinds. This difficulty can be reduced by treating the interrelationship nodes as primary and the interrelationship links as secondary.

## Physical

The web of different modes of public transportation can only work if all the parts are well-connected. This tends not to be the case because of the emphasis placed on the high volume modes and the difficulty of coordinating the interchange between different modes, especially to local areas. This difficulty can be reduced by treating the interchange points as primary and the actual transportation lines as secondary. Local communities controlling the interchanges can then require guarantees of a desirable level of local service.

## Social

The web of public communication facilities can only work if all social actors are connected by it. This tends not to be the case because of the privileged role accorded to the mass media and the difficulty of translating information between different modes of communication, especially when adapted to particular profiles. This difficulty can be reduced by treating the translation arenas as primary and the actual lines of communication as secondary. Specialized groups controlling the translation arenas can then require guarantees of a desirable level of adaptation to particular profiles.

## Conceptual

The web of general conceptual relationships only acquires its full significance if all concepts are integrated within it. This tends not to be the case because of the fundamental role attributed to intellectual or ideological lines of thought, and the difficulty of integrating concepts based on very different or highly specialized modes of thought. This difficulty can be reduced by treating such interrelationship nexi as primary and the relationships themselves as secondary. Concepts governing such nexi can then require a desirable level of integration of specialized modes of thought.

## Psychic

An ordered network associating different modes of awareness only acquires its full significance if all modes are integrated within it. This tends not to be the case because of the primacy accorded to certain preferred modes of awareness and the difficulty of integrating modes based on very different insights or extraordinary experiences. This difficulty can be reduced by recognition of integrative correspondences as primary and the insights themselves as secondary. Modes of awareness integrating such correspondences can then require a desirable level of integration of any specialized modes of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Access to intensity](12610100)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Interchange](12610340)
- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [User-determined specialized communications](12610200)
