# 12610100 - Access to intensity

## Template

Complexification of structures and processes at centralized locations constitute a powerful attractant but such development progressively limits access to the intensity of relationships in that environment. Access can be increased by limiting the degree of complexification and multiplying the number and variety of such points of focus.

## Physical

City life is experienced as magical because of its intensity. But urban sprawl deprives most people of genuine participation in it because they must live far out from the core. This problem can only be solved by decentralizing the core to form a multitude of smaller cores, each intense and devoted to some special way of life, corresponding to the needs of the region as a whole.

## Social

Large organizational complexes are experienced as exciting environments because of the variety and intensity of activity within them. But institutional proliferation deprives most people of genuine participation at the foci where action oriented decisions are taken. This problem can only be solved by decentralization around a multitude of smaller decision-making loci, each exemplifying some special way of life corresponding to the needs of the functional domain as a whole.

## Conceptual

Major schools of thought, conceptual frameworks or ideologies are a powerful attractant because of the intensity and complexity of intellectual activity associated with them. But the proliferation of derivative conceptual developments associated with them progressively deprives most people of genuine participation at those points of excellence where creative development is actually taking place. This problem can only be solved by decentralization around a multitude of smaller innovative areas, each exemplifying some special method or approach corresponding to the needs of the conceptual domain as a whole.

## Psychic

The principal modes of awareness exert a powerful influence because of the fascinating richness and intensity of experience they provide. But the proliferation of derivative modes of awareness associated with them progressively inhibits direct creative experience of the fundamental insight governing the further transformation of such a mode. This problem can only be solved by multiplying the number of more limited modes of awareness, each exemplifying some more accessible special insight corresponding to the needs of personal development as a whole.

## Broader Patterns

- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Context for disorder](12610580)
- [Underdefined processes](12610330)
- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Four-level structural limit](12610210)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)
- [Web of general interrelationships](12610160)
- [Cycle of relationship reinforcement](12610310)
- [Coherent pattern of relationship densities](12610280)
- [Hospitable contexts for perspectives in transition](12610910)
- [Cyclic interrelation of complementary perspective in common domains](12610630)
