# 12610130 - Sub-domain boundary

## Template

In order to maintain a variety of forms and processes, boundaries are required to insulate from one another the different (at least partially) sub-domains in which each prevails.

## Physical

A mosaic of subcultures requires that hundreds of different cultures live, in their own way, at full intensity, on neighbouring territories. But subcultures have their own ecology. They can only live at full intensity, unhampered by their territorial neighbours, if they are physically separated by physical boundaries, whether natural or man-made.

## Social

A mosaic of subcultures and alternative life styles requires that hundreds of different groups live, in their own way, at full intensity on neighbouring functional territories. But subcultures have their own ecology. They can only live at full intensity, unhampered by their functional neighbours, if they are functionally separated by functional boundaries, whether traditional or designed.

## Conceptual

A mosaic of subcultures and conceptual frameworks requires that hundreds of different schools of thought function, in their own way, at full intensity on neighbouring conceptual domains. But subcultures have their own ecology. They can only live at full intensity, unhampered by their intellectual neighbours, if they are conceptually separated by definitions, whether traditional or designed.

## Psychic

A mosaic of distinct modes of awareness requires the co-existence of hundreds of different modes. The full intensity of each mode only emerges, unhampered by its neighbours, if the modes are appropriately separated.

## Broader Patterns

- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Decentralized formal processes](12610090)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Context boundary](12610150)
- [Adaptive interstices](12610480)
- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Accessible non-linearity](12610600)
- [Web of selective interchange](12610190)
- [Relationship to indeterminacy](12610250)
- [Positions enabling transcendence](12610240)
- [Access to contained irrationality](12610710)
- [Low-intensity communication pathways](12610590)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Compensating relationships in parallel](12610230)
- [Chain of fundamental transformation zones](12610420)
- [Access to patterns of active irrationality](12610640)
- [Coherent pattern of relationship densities](12610280)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)
- [Transitional contexts for perspective reorganization](12610840)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
