# 12610060 - Intermediate scale organization

## Template

More comprehensive forms of organization function as powerful attractors. It is difficult to ensure the viability of intermediate forms of organization in relationship to them. Efforts should be maintained to ensure that such intermediate forms of organization function as attractors in their own right and are not merely dependencies of the more powerful attractors.

## Physical

The big city is a magnet. Small country towns find it difficult to stay alive and healthy in the face of central urban growth. Where they exist, country towns should be preserved. The growth of new self-contained towns should also be encouraged. The region should be collectively concerned to ensure their viability and avoid their development into dormitory towns.

## Social

The activities of a large and growing organizational complex attract further participation. It is consequently difficult for smaller organizations to offer processes of equivalent attractiveness to ensure their viability. Where such intermediate bodies exist they should be preserved. The growth of new self-reliant forms of organization should be encouraged. The functional domain should be collectively concerned to ensure their viability and avoid their development into dependent or "front" organizations.

## Conceptual

Major conceptual and ideological frameworks powerfully attract adherents. It is consequently difficult for smaller alternative frameworks to offer knowledge of equivalent interest to ensure their viability. Where such alternatives exist they should be preserved. The growth of new alternatives should be encouraged. There should be collective concern within the conceptual domain to ensure their viability and avoid their development into conceptual outposts of any major framework.

## Psychic

Major modes of awareness powerfully attract further involvement. It is consequently difficult for less comprehensive alternative modes of awareness to offer insights of a power sufficient to ensure their viability. Where such alternatives exist they should be preserved. The growth of new alternatives should be encouraged. There should be a general concern to ensure their viability and independence and avoid their development into aspects of any major modes of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Distribution of organization](12610020)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Functional cycle](12610260)
- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
