# 12610110 - Local interrelationship domains

## Template

Means of non-local interrelationship, when employed locally, inhibit the articulation of local domains and destroy their integrity. The domain as a whole should be broken down into local interrelationship domains for which the non-local interrelationships help to define a boundary. Appropriate connections should be established between the local and non-local interrelationships.

## Physical

Automobiles provide unlimited opportunities for freedom and access to variety, but at the expense of both the environment and social life. The urban area should be broken down into local transport areas, each surrounded by a ring road. Within such areas, paths and minor local roads (inconvenient for cars) should be built for internal movement, with major roads providing access to the ring roads.

## Social

Non-local communication media, when employed locally, inhibit the articulation and social development of community organization and destroy its integrity. The functional domain as a whole should be broken down into local communication areas, each with direct access to non-local communication media. Within such areas, group and interpersonal communication networks should be developed for internal purposes, appropriately connected to (and protected from) the non-local communication media.

## Conceptual

General conceptual relationships, when employed in specialized areas, inhibit the articulation of specialized conceptual domains and destroy their integrity. The domain as a whole should be broken down into domains within which particular local relationships prevail, but appropriately related to a pattern of general relationships.

## Psychic

General patterns of insight, when used to order immediate experience, inhibit development of appreciation of the uniqueness of the present and destroy the integrity of such immediacy. The pattern of insight as a whole should be broken down into domains in which the sense of immediacy prevails, with each appropriately related to the contextual pattern.

## Broader Patterns

- [Access to intensity](12610100)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Interchange](12610340)
- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [Local relationship loops](12610490)
- [Web of selective interchange](12610190)
- [Special modes of relationship](12610560)
- [Occupiable temporary site limit](12610220)
- [Web of general interrelationships](12610160)
- [Compensating relationships in parallel](12610230)
- [User-determined specialized communications](12610200)
- [Linear relationships enhanced by non-linear processes](12610510)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
- [Interfacing vehicles of communication and networks of unmediated relationships](12610520)
