# 12610070 - Non-linear organization

## Template

Within each domain, in between the linearly organized areas, there are large areas of non-linear organization whose status and function are crucial to the balance of the domain as a whole.

## Physical

Each region has vast areas of countryside (farmland, parkland, forests, deserts, lakes) which separate towns. The legal and ecological character of this open land is a crucial aspect in the balance of the entire region. parks created in the towns are artificial; farms treated as private property deprive people of their natural rights to enjoy the countryside from whence they came. Every area of open space either is farmed if it is arable or is wardened if it is wild. But the countryside should be open at large to all people, provided they respect the ecological processes going on.

## Social

Within each functional domain there are extensive areas of informal organization providing a context for the many formal organizations. The character and status of such informality is crucial to the organizational balance of the domain. Such informality in its many forms should be open to all, provided they respect the special character of social processes associated with it.

## Conceptual

Within each conceptual domain there are extensive areas of non-linear organization of knowledge providing a context for those areas which have been linearly organized. Such non-linear organization is crucial to the balance of knowledge in the domain and as such should be accessible to all, with due respect for the special quality of the conceptual processes involved.

## Psychic

Within each mode of awareness there are many perceptual processes which are non-linearly organized. These non-rational processes provide a context for those which are rationally organized and are crucial to the balance of the mode of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Distribution of organization](12610020)
- [Network of inter-relationships](12610050)
- [Intermediate scale organization](12610060)
- [Regenerative resource cultivation areas](12610040)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Relationship to indeterminacy](12610250)
- [Hierachy of perspectives favouring the broadest](12611140)
- [Linear relationships enhanced by non-linear processes](12610510)
