# 12612450 - Protecting variability to enhance fixity

## Template

Zones of variability require protection to render them accessible so that they enhance zones of fixity effectively.

## Physical

Flowers are beautiful along the edges of paths, buildings, and outdoor rooms where they soften edges. But unless they are protected within a raised bed, they cannot easily survive and are inaccessible to those who would appreciate them.

## Social

Spontaneous creativity (and humour) relieves the tedium of organizational rules and procedures thus helping to make them more acceptable. But unless accessible protective contexts are provided for such spontaneity, it cannot easily thrive under normal organizational pressures.

## Conceptual

Imaginative and speculative thinking enlivens intellectual discourses governed by well-defined theories and methods, thus encouraging creative advances. But unless a recognized respectable place is given to such unconstrained speculation it cannot easily survive in disciplined discourse.

## Psychic

Imaginative musings and adventures in awareness and modes of being contribute to psychic well-being. But unless they are given an accepted role, it may be difficult for them to fulfil their function adequately.

## Broader Patterns

- [Inter-level zone](12612260)
- [Ambiguous boundaries](12612430)
- [Intermediate position](12612420)
- [Ground-level visibility](12612220)
- [Focus-oriented communication networks](12611200)
- [Contexts of self-organizing non-linearity](12611720)
- [Maintaining distinctions between contextual levels](12611690)
- [Integrating points of perspective into common domains](12611250)
- [Linear relationships enhanced by non-linear processes](12610510)
- [Protecting non-linear contexts from communication pathways](12611730)
- [Integration of non-linearity into integrative superstructure](12611180)
- [Hospitable interface between structures and external environment](12611600)
- [Harmoniously structured entry point for external communication media](12611130)
