# 12610150 - Context boundary

## Template

The strength of the boundary is essential to the maintenance of an identifiable context. An appropriate boundary emerges as the number of relationships to the external environment is limited.

## Physical

The strength of the boundary is essential to the maintenance of the identifiable character of the neighbourhood. The boundary may be formed by closing down some streets crossing the neighbourhood thus limiting access to the neighbourhood.

## Social

The strength of the boundary is essential to the maintenance of the identifiable character of a group or functional unit. The boundary may be formed by cutting off some communication pathway through the group and restricting access to the group's activity.

## Conceptual

The strength of the boundary is essential to the maintenance of the identifiable character of a conceptual system. The definition may be articulated by establishing distinctions from the pattern of general relationships within which the system is embedded.

## Psychic

The strength of the distinction between modes of awareness is essential to the maintenance of the identifiable character of any focal, ground or "home" mode. The distinction may be reinforced by developing the sense of primacy or groundedness associated with such a mode in contrast to others.

## Broader Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Decentralized formal processes](12610090)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Adaptive interstices](12610480)
- [Accessible non-linearity](12610600)
- [Principal points of entry](12610530)
- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Low-intensity communication pathways](12610590)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Common external context for inactivity](12610690)
- [Compensating relationships in parallel](12610230)
- [Access to patterns of active irrationality](12610640)
- [Unstructured context for perspective exchange](12610900)
- [Context for acknowledgement of past perspectives](12610700)
- [Limitation on number of occupiable temporary sites](12611030)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
- [Competitive interaction opportunities transposed to a concrete level](12610720)
- [Contexts for exploratory relationship formation challenging emerging perspectives](12610730)
