# 12610330 - Underdefined processes

## Template

In every domain there are processes that are underdefined or are only evident when the well-defined processes are inactive. Underdefined processes should be clustered to ensure their viability as attractors.

## Physical

In every urban community there is some kind of night life after daytime activities are closed down. Entertainment facilities, bars, discos, restaurants, etc need to be distributed in clusters to provide lively, secure pedestrian environments in order to guarantee their attractiveness and viability.

## Social

Associated with every organizational complex or group there are extra-mural activities to which participants are attracted during interruptions in the cycle of normal group activity. These range from drinking together through office recreation clubs, group celebrations, parties, collective participation in carnivals and excursions, to other forms of group entertainment. Such activities need to be clustered in space and/or time if they are to provide lively secure environments in order to guarantee their attractiveness and viability.

## Conceptual

In every conceptual domain there are unconscious, ill-defined processes that are only evident when the well-defined conceptual procedures are inactive or exhausted. Such unconscious processes should be inter-related or associated in order to ensure their viability as catalysts for the emergence of alternative perspectives.

## Psychic

In every mode of awareness there are unconscious, ill-defined processes that are only evident when the person's conscious awareness is stilled. Such unconscious processes, including dreams and waking fantasies, should be inter- related in order to ensure their viability as catalysts for the emergence of new insights.

## Broader Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Access to intensity](12610100)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Cycle of relationship reinforcement](12610310)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Local focal points](12610440)
- [Context for disorder](12610580)
- [Informal local perspective interface zones](12610880)
- [Unstructured context for perspective exchange](12610900)
- [Hospitable contexts for perspectives in transition](12610910)
- [Cyclic interrelation of complementary perspective in common domains](12610630)
