# 12610390 - Integrating a new dimension

## Template

At the central foci of any domain the density of relationships between elements is such as to require construction of a framework in a new dimension . To avoid a purely mechanistic pattern, each element, whilst acquiring unique characteristics within the framework, should encode its earlier spatial dimensions and the rhythms of its earlier dynamics.

## Physical

In every urban environment there are places so central that high-rise apartments tend to be constructed to accommodate the high population density. To avoid alienating impersonality, each apartment should have a direct connection to the ground, a private garden and the possibility of acquiring a unique identity. This may be accomplished by using stepped terraces on a housing hill.

## Social

At the central (or fashionable) foci of any organizational complex the preferred density of relationships is such as to require that many be based on a new mode of action. To avoid alienating impersonality, each group should maintain a direct connection to simpler and more fundamental modes of organizing relationships in time, whilst at the same time acquiring unique characteristics in the new framework.

## Conceptual

At the central foci of any conceptual domain the necessary density of relationships between concepts is such as to require that many be based on a new (or meta) dimension. To avoid arid incomprehensibility, each set of concepts should maintain a direct connection to simpler and more fundamental patterns of relationship, whilst at the same time acquiring unique characteristics within the new framework.

## Psychic

At the central foci of any mode of awareness the density of relationships amongst perceptions and insights is such as to require that many be based on a new dimension of understanding. To avoid cold detachment, each set of insights should maintain a direct connection to simpler and more fundamental patterns of insight, whilst at the same time developing unique characteristics in the light of the new dimension.

## Broader Patterns

- [Interchange](12610340)
- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Four-level structural limit](12610210)
- [Differentiation by relationship density](12610360)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Unstructured common domain](12610670)
- [Perspective-adaptable contexts](12610790)
- [Extended pattern of nuclear interaction](12610750)
- [External access to higher structural levels](12611580)
- [Local cultivation of sources of perspective nourishment](12611770)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
- [Arrangement of structures ot engender fruitful interfaces](12611000)
- [Integration of non-linearity into integrative superstructure](12611180)
- [Spontaneous relationship formation amongst emerging perspectives](12610680)
