# 12610020 - Distribution of organization

## Template

If a domain is characterized by small clusters of organization to too great an extent, more comprehensive forms of organization cannot emerge. But if a domain is characterized by large clusters of organization to too great an extent, such organization will not be able to ensure the integrity of the domain.

## Physical

If the population of a region is comprised of too many small villages, advanced civilization is unlikely to be generated; but if a region has too many large cities, the surrounding area will go to ruin for there will be no populace there to tend to it. The population needs to be distributed evenly in towns of different sizes, and the towns of the same size need to be distributed evenly throughout the region.

## Social

If a functional domain is characterized by smaller groups to too great an extent, larger and more complex forms of organization cannot emerge. But if such a domain is characterized by larger and more complex forms of organization to too great an extent, such forms of organization will prove detrimental to the integrity of the functional domain. Groups of different size and degrees of organization should be distributed evenly throughout the functional domain.

## Conceptual

If a conceptual domain is characterized by small networks or groups of concepts to too great an extent, more integrated and comprehensive forms of organization cannot emerge. But if such a domain is characterized by extensively organized networks of concepts to too great an extent, such a degree of organization will prove detrimental to the integrity of the conceptual domain. Bodies of knowledge of different degrees of organization should be distributed evenly throughout the domain.

## Psychic

If a mode of awareness is characterized by too many aspects of limited degree of organization, more integrated and comprehensive forms of awareness cannot emerge. But if such a mode of awareness is characterized by too limited a number of highly organized aspects, then this manner of organization will prove detrimental to the integrity of that mode of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Independent domains](12610010)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Intermediate scale organization](12610060)
- [Regenerative resource cultivation areas](12610040)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)
