# 12612120 - Primary inter-level connections at transitions in boundary orientation

## Template

In order to be able to freely adapt the design of a framework during its construction in the light of insights and opportunities emerging during that process, detailed designs elaborated prior to that process should be avoided. The required flexibility can be ensured by first identifying the positions which generate the spaces and their boundaries at the initial level. Those located at transitions in boundary orientation are the site of the primary inter-level connections. These may generate spaces at several other levels of the framework.

## Physical

The common practice of specifying complex building plans in perfect detail cripples the buildings that are generated in this way. The necessities of the drawing itself change the plan, make it more rigid, and limit it to the kind of plan which can be drawn and measured. The rich range of possibilities can only be preserved if the builder is able to generate a living building, with all its slightly uneven lines and imperfect angles. In order to achieve this aim, the building must be generated in an entirely different manner. What must be done, essentially, is to fix those points (representing columns) which generate the space - as few as possible - and then let those points generate the walls, right out on the building site, during the very process of construction.

## Broader Patterns

- [Progressive framework definition](12612080)
- [Partially enclosed internal domains](12611930)
- [Diversified interchange environment](12610460)
- [Organization of integrative superstructure](12612090)
- [Substantive distinctions separating domains](12611970)
- [Harmonizing space distribution between levels](12612100)
- [Appropriate proportions of perspective contexts](12611910)
- [Boundary expansion permitting new level generation](12612110)
- [Framework for transition between structural levels](12611950)
- [Efficient enclosure of spaces with minimal structural distinctions](12612060)
- [Congruence between spaces defined by the framework and spaces defined by the processes within it](12612050)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Inter-level zone](12612260)
- [Perimeter continuity](12612170)
- [Initial level formation](12612150)
- [Inter-level connections](12612160)
- [Integration superstructure](12612200)
- [Integrative infrastructure](12612140)
- [Level generation of minimum tension](12612190)
- [Overview sites from integrative superstructure](12612310)
- [Distribution of secondary inter-level connections](12612130)
