# 12610030 - Interpretation of complementary modes of organization

## Template

A continuous pattern of organization and definition denies the existence and emergence of the underdefined and severely diminishes the value of major established patterns of organization. But the degree of integration of such major patterns is also valuable and potent. A compromise can be achieved by ensuring appropriate interpenetration of defined and underdefined modes of organization as complements.

## Physical

Massive urban environments render life mechanized and harsh and detract from enjoyment and health from enjoyment and health. But the size of cities is potent. Interlocking fingers of farmland and urban land are an appropriate compromise, even at the centre of the metropolis.

## Social

The proliferation of total patterns of organization and systems of procedures denies the existence and emergence of unorganized activity and severely diminishes the value of major institutions. But the degree of integration of such institutions is also valuable and potent. A compromise can be achieved by ensuring the interpenetration of formal and informal modes of organization as necessary complements.

## Conceptual

The proliferation of totally organized bodies of knowledge and conceptual methods ignores the existence and emergence of underdefined concepts and forms of integration with the consequence that conceptual development is severely inhibited. But the degree of integration of such established bodies of knowledge is also valuable and potent. A compromise can be achieved by ensuring the interpenetration of formal and informal modes of conceptual organization.

## Psychic

The proliferation of highly structured modes of awareness ignores the existence and emergence of underdefined modes of awareness and forms of integration, with the consequence that personal development is severely inhibited. But the degree of integration of such established modes of awareness is also valuable and potent. A compromise can be achieved by ensuring the interpenetration of structured and unstructured modes of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Distribution of organization](12610020)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [Access to intensity](12610100)
- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Four-level structural limit](12610210)
- [Network of inter-relationships](12610050)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)
- [Web of general interrelationships](12610160)
- [Regenerative resource cultivation areas](12610040)
