# 12610040 - Regenerative resource cultivation areas

## Template

Those areas in which resources can best be regenerated are also those most favourable for the construction of frameworks. The availability of such areas is however limited and once denatured by the construction of frameworks, its resource regeneration function cannot easily be recovered. Such areas should therefore be protected.

## Physical

The land which is best for agriculture happens to be best for building too. It is however limited and once the fertility is destroyed or locked up it cannot be regained for centuries. Agricultural valleys should therefore be protected as farmland or as nature reserves, if they are not cultivated.

## Social

The functional areas most favourable to regeneration of social resources are also those in which organizations can most easily be established. The availability of such areas is however limited and once denatured by the establishment of organizations, their resource regeneration function cannot easily be recovered. Such functional areas should therefore be protected from attempts at organization.

## Conceptual

The domains most favourable to regeneration of creative resources are also those in which concepts can most easily be ordered into conceptual frameworks. The availability of such areas is however limited and once denatured by the establishment of such frameworks their function in regenerating creative resources cannot easily be recovered. Such creative domains should therefore be protected from attempts at conceptual organization.

## Psychic

The modes of awareness most favourable to regeneration of psychic resources are also those which lend themselves most easily to being structured. The availability of such modes is however limited and once denatured by being structured in this way, their regenerative function cannot easily be recovered. Such modes of awareness should therefore be protected from efforts to structure them.

## Broader Patterns

- [Independent domains](12610010)
- [Distribution of organization](12610020)
- [Interpretation of complementary modes of organization](12610030)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
