# 12610280 - Coherent pattern of relationship densities

## Template

Within a domain randomness in the density of local relationships fails to reinforce any recognizable pattern on the basis of which the domain as a whole may be identified. A systematic variation in the pattern of relationship densities can provide the necessary coherence.

## Physical

Within an urban environment population densities are higher towards the centre, but there is no recognizable pattern arising from the manner in which this trend is modified by the many component local communities (with their own centres). Such randomness inhibits development of any community identity and creates a chaos in the pattern of land use. Given that the centre of local communities are each located on their community boundary (eccentrically towards the centre of the larger agglomeration), by encouraging them each to bulge both towards the geometric centres of their own local community and in a horseshoe along the neighbouring boundary, a gradient of imbricated horseshoes emerges as an overall pattern supportive of local community life.

## Social

Within any organizational complex, network or group, randomness in the local density distribution of formal or informal relationships fails to reinforce any recognizable pattern on the basis of which the organization as a whole may be identified, comprehended and effectively used. A systematic variation in the pattern of relationship densities can provide the necessary coherence.

## Conceptual

Within any conceptual framework or body of knowledge, randomness in the density of relationships between specialized concepts fails to reinforce any recognizable pattern on the basis of which the conceptual framework as a whole may be identified, comprehended and effectively used. A systematic variation in the pattern of specialized relationships can provide the necessary coherence.

## Psychic

Within any mode of awareness randomness in the degree of relatedness of sets of perceptions fails to reinforce any recognizable pattern on the basis of which the mode of awareness as a whole may be identified, comprehended and profitably used. A systematic variation in the pattern of sets of perceptions can provide the necessary coherence.

## Broader Patterns

- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Access to intensity](12610100)
- [Four-level structural limit](12610210)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Positions enabling transcendence](12610240)
- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Access to contained irrationality](12610710)
- [Cycle of relationship reinforcement](12610310)
- [Low-intensity communication pathways](12610590)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)
