# 12610350 - Adequate variety of cyclic elements

## Template

The coherence and specificity of the cycle of interacting phases, by which a domain is defined, is largely determined by the variety of those cyclic elements.

## Physical

The mix of dwelling types (and ages) in any neighbourhood or urban cluster, namely the presence together of dwellings appropriate for children, single people, working couples, and the old, largely determines the coherence and uniqueness of such a community and its potential for self-renewal. Mixing must be balanced by the need to construct similar dwelling types together.

## Social

The mix of people of different ages, namely at different stages in the human life cycle (or the life cycle of a group), is a major factor in determining the degree of coherence and uniqueness of any organizational complex or group. People need support and confirmation from those at other stages in a life cycle, whether older or younger. Mixing different household types must be balanced against the needs for those of the same age group to be together.

## Conceptual

The variety of distinct methods or conceptual approaches (including the classical and the innovative) constituting the learning/discovery cycle of any conceptual domain or school of thought is a major factor in determining its degree of coherence and specificity. The mixture of methods must however be balanced against the need to strengthen the relationships between those of the same kind.

## Psychic

The variety of distinct perceptions (including the habitual and the innovative) constituting the cycle of processes of any mode of awareness is a major factor in determining its degree of coherence and uniqueness. The mixture of perceptions must however be balanced against the need to reinforce the relationships between those of the same kind.

## Broader Patterns

- [Functional cycle](12610260)
- [Identifiable context](12610140)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Cluster of frameworks](12610370)
- [Integrating the historical dimension](12610400)
- [Informal context for formal processes](12610410)
- [Minimal context for single perspective](12610780)
- [Extended pattern of nuclear interaction](12610750)
- [Minimal context for complementary perspectives](12610770)
- [Minimal context interrelating mature and emerging perspectives](12610760)
- [Spontaneous relationship formation amongst emerging perspectives](12610680)
