# 12610250 - Relationship to indeterminacy

## Template

The significance of a domain of defined relationships is enhanced if it includes, or is contiguous with, a domain of indeterminacy in which fixed relationships are partially freed to form other patterns. The boundary between the two domains requires special protection because of the tendency of unharmonious relationships to accumulate there in an uncontrolled manner.

## Physical

Natural bodies of water, whether beaches, lakes or river banks, are of vital and profound significance to people, if only for recreation or industrial purposes. Measures are required to prevent the accumulation of unsightly structures (buildings, factories, roads, etc) at the water's edge which render it inaccessible and disagreeable.

## Social

Informality, whether in the form of parties, festivals or other non-structured occasions providing emotional outlet is of vital and profound significance to people, if only for recreation purposes or to facilitate formal relationships and agreements between organizations. Measures are required to prevent the proliferation of artificial procedures and rituals which render access to informality difficult and disagreeable.

## Conceptual

Indeterminacy, whether in the form of uncertainty, fuzziness, or ignorance, is of vital and profound importance to creative conceptual development, if only to facilitate the emergence of alternative perspectives or to enable beneficial cross-fertilization between conceptual frameworks. Measures are required to prevent the proliferation of artificial methods and procedures which render exposure to uncertainty difficult and conceptually inelegant.

## Psychic

Unstructured modes of awareness, whether in the form of insight, intuition, empathy or other non- rational forms, is of vital and profound significance to a person, if only as a catalyst for relaxation or to facilitate integration between more disciplined modes of awareness. Measures are required to prevent the proliferation of artificial attitudes and habits which render exposure to such immediate awareness difficult and painful.

## Broader Patterns

- [Encirclement](12610170)
- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Positions enabling transcendence](12610240)
- [Compensating relationships in parallel](12610230)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Access to contained irrationality](12610710)
- [Cycle of relationship reinforcement](12610310)
- [Access to patterns of active irrationality](12610640)
- [Limitation on number of occupiable temporary sites](12611030)
