# 12610220 - Occupiable temporary site limit

## Template

The integrity of a domain depends very much on the limit set on the number of sites available for temporary occupation. These function as attractants for mobile elements, both from within and from outside the domain.

## Physical

The integrity of local communities and neighbourhoods depends very much on the limit set on the number of parking spaces provided. When this exceeds about nine percent the environment becomes unfit for human use because of the number of vehicles attracted to it.

## Social

The integrity of groups and organizations depends very much on the limit set on the number of uncommitted participants. The opportunity of such temporary membership attracts excessive and irresponsible involvement which destroys organizational coherence and continuity.

## Conceptual

The integrity of a conceptual domain depends very much on the limit set on the number of unresolved issues within it on which alternative or external explanations are sought. The opportunity to offer such explanations may attract superficial and irresponsible involvement to an excessive degree. This inhibits the development of the domain.

## Psychic

The integrity of a mode of awareness depends very much on the limit set on the number of unintegrated perceptions on which alternative insights are sought. Openness to an excessive number of such insights inhibits the development of that mode of awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Individuality in multiplicity](12610120)
- [Local interrelationship domains](12610110)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Limitation on number of occupiable temporary sites](12611030)
- [Distinct pattern of entry points to complex structures](12611020)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
