# 12610120 - Individuality in multiplicity

## Template

Individual elements, as such, can have no distinguishably unique function in forming a pattern composed of 5,000 to 10,000 such elements. Patterns should therefore be decentralized so as to group not more than approximately 7,000 such elements, thus enabling each element to play a distinct part in the pattern.

## Physical

Territorial communities expression than 5000-10,000 persons inhibit individual voices. City governments should be decentralized in such a manner as to give local control to communities of approximately 7,000 persons; these communities being delineated by geographic and historic boundaries. Each community should be individually responsible for initiating, deciding, and executing those affairs by which it is affected.

## Social

Individuals have no effective voice in any non-territorial community of more than 5,000 to 10,000 persons. Decentralize major institutions in a way that gives local control to functional divisions interrelating approximately 7,000 persons. Use cultural and traditional distinctions to reinforce such organizational boundaries whenever possible. Give each organization the power to initiate, decide and execute the affairs that concern it closely.

## Conceptual

Individual concepts can have no distinguishably unique function in constituting a conceptual framework of more than 5,000 to 10,000 such concepts. Conceptual frameworks should therefore be partitioned so as to interrelate not more than 7,000 such concepts, thus enabling each concept to fulfil a distinct role in the pattern.

## Psychic

Individual moments of awareness can have no distinguishably unique function in forming a mode of awareness of more than 5,000 to 10,000 such facets. Modes of awareness should therefore be organized so as to interrelate not more than 7,000 such moments, thus enabling each moment to contribute uniquely to the mode as a whole.

## Broader Patterns

- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Intermediate scale organization](12610060)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Activity nodes](12610300)
- [Complementarity](12610270)
- [Functional cycle](12610260)
- [Context boundary](12610150)
- [Local focal points](12610440)
- [Sub-domain boundary](12610130)
- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Underdefined processes](12610330)
- [Points of wider perspective](12610620)
- [Occupiable temporary site limit](12610220)
- [Cycle of relationship reinforcement](12610310)
- [Context for emergence of new perspectives](12610650)
- [Coherent pattern of relationship densities](12610280)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)
