# 12612440 - Flexible interfaces

## Template

Flexible interfaces can provide a more appropriate boundary between the fixity of well-defined spaces and the variability of the contexts within which they are embedded.

## Physical

A building using canvas awnings or temporary roofing touches the elements more nearly than when constructed with hard conventional materials only. Canvas has a softness, a suppleness, which is in harmony with wind, light and sun.

## Social

A group permitting varying degrees of informal participation responds more naturally to its context than one based on formal membership only. Such flexible informality is in harmony with the shifting currents of opinion in the social environment.

## Conceptual

A conceptual framework able to incorporate informal methods of interacting with its environment is accepted as more realistic than one based on formal methods alone. Such flexibility is more responsive to the problems of representing complex, ill-defined phenomena.

## Psychic

A condition of awareness incorporating some subjective modes of understanding can provide a more appropriate interface with the psychic environment than one based on objective modes alone. An interface of such flexibility is more adapted to conditions in which the psychic boundary is ill-defined.

## Broader Patterns

- [Filtered insights](12612380)
- [Context for disorder](12610580)
- [Selective interchange axis](12610320)
- [Partially contained interfaces](12611190)
- [Structure-enfolded insight domain](12611610)
- [Diversified interchange environment](12610460)
- [Common external context for inactivity](12610690)
- [Informal local perspective interface zones](12610880)
- [Occupiable sites exposed to external insight](12611800)
- [Communication pathways enfolded by non-linearity](12611740)
- [Intersection of differently paced communications](12610540)
- [Limitation on number of occupiable temporary sites](12611030)
- [Hospitable non-linear domain external to structures](12611630)
- [Concealment of necessary monotonous perspective patterns](12610970)
- [Integration of non-linearity into integrative superstructure](12611180)
- [Transit point location for sources of perspective nourishment](12610930)
- [Cyclic interrelation of complementary perspective in common domains](12610630)
- [Relative isolation of structural interface with communication pathway](12611400)
- [Overview domains at interfaces of the structure with the external environment](12611660)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Encouraging emphases](12612500)
- [Symbols of integration](12612490)
