# 12610370 - Cluster of frameworks

## Template

The fundamental unit of identifiable local organization within a domain is the cluster of frameworks within which elements are grouped. The limit on the number of frameworks per cluster varies from 8 to 12 depending on the balance between implicit, dynamic and explicit structural organization.

## Physical

The fundamental unit of organization within an identifiable neighbourhood is the cluster of houses. The limit on the number of houses per cluster varies from 8 to 12 depending on the balance between the informality and coherence of the group. The houses should preferably be arranged around some commonly owned land and paths.

## Social

The fundamental unit of local organization in any identifiable social span is the (proximity) cluster of groups (or people) with related preoccupations. The limit on the number of groups (or people) per cluster varies from 8 to 12 depending on the balance between the informality of the relationships within the cluster and the coherence of the cluster as a whole. The relationships between the groups (or people) should preferably be such as to define an area of commonly held concern.

## Conceptual

The fundamental unit of local organization in any identifiable conceptual span is the (proximity) cluster of conceptual frameworks with related foci. The limit on the number of frameworks per cluster varies from 8 to 12 depending on the balance between the network of implicit, associative relationships and the degree of explicit, structural organization. The relationships between the frameworks should preferably be such as to define a common focus.

## Psychic

The fundamental unit of local organization in any identifiable field of awareness is the cluster of perceptual frameworks with related foci. The limit on the number of frameworks per cluster varies from 8 to 12 depending on the balance between the fluidity of the perceived relationships and the degree of gestalt awareness of the cluster as a whole. The perceptual frameworks should preferably be configured such as to highlight a unifying awareness.

## Broader Patterns

- [Identifiable context](12610140)
- [Non-linear organization](12610070)
- [Variety of forms and processes](12610080)
- [Network of inter-relationships](12610050)
- [Adequate variety of cyclic elements](12610350)
- [Differentiation by relationship density](12610360)
- [Stable density gradient of local relationships](12610290)

## Narrower Patterns

- [Standard frameworks](12610380)
- [Adaptive interstices](12610480)
- [Local relationship loops](12610490)
- [Principal points of entry](12610530)
- [Unstructured common domain](12610670)
- [Integrating a new dimension](12610390)
- [Perspective-adaptable contexts](12610790)
- [Patterning of complex structures](12610980)
- [Access to contained irrationality](12610710)
- [Minimal context for single perspective](12610780)
- [Extended pattern of nuclear interaction](12610750)
- [Local opportunities for perspective activity](12611570)
- [Minimal context for complementary perspectives](12610770)
- [Re-integration of rejected perspective by-products](12611780)
- [Limitation on number of occupiable temporary sites](12611030)
- [Insight capturing non-linear extensions of structures](12611750)
- [Distinct pattern of entry points to complex structures](12611020)
- [Blended integration of formal structure and informal context](12611110)
- [Minimal context interrelating mature and emerging perspectives](12610760)
- [Spontaneous relationship formation amongst emerging perspectives](12610680)
